# Data Incubator Project Proposal
Some preliminary multiple regression shows that different hospital, disease, and severity significantly affect the cost and profitability. It is understandable that cost and charge may be different across disease, severity and medical/surgical. However, it is not so obvious that the profit can vary significant over these factors. Furthermore, control for the same disease, severity and medical/surgical, significant profit/charge variation across hospitals may not be intuitive and can be very informative to both hospitals and patients/insurance. The research has two purposes. The first is to shed light on the determinant of hospitals expenditure, the study evaluates the effect of aggregate income and type of payments, and demographic factors on hospital expenditure. The second purpose is to investigate empirical issues involved in multiple regression analysis of hospitals expenditure, and whether or not the statistical assumptions underlying the linear regression model are satisfied.
# The Data
The Statewide Planning and Research Cooperative System (SPARCS) is a comprehensive data reporting system which collects patient level detail on patient characteristics, diagnoses, treatments, services, and charges for every hospital discharge from an Article 28 facility; ambulatory surgery discharges from hospital-based ambulatory surgery centers and all other facilities providing ambulatory surgery services; and emergency department visits in New York State. This dataset is a summary of the SPARCS inpatient discharge data.
# plot for One Sample Trajectory 
